migrate oracle docs (#2715)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: docs/references/protocol/transactions/types/oracleset.md

---
html: OracleSet.html 
parent: transaction-types.html
blurb: Create or update an existing price oracle.
labels:
  - Oracle
status: not_enabled
---
# OracleSet
_(Requires the [PriceOracle amendment][] {% not-enabled /%})_

[[Source]](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/blob/master/src/ripple/app/tx/impl/SetOracle.cpp "Source")

Creates a new `Oracle` ledger entry or updates the fields of an existing one, using the Oracle ID.

The oracle provider must complete these steps before submitting this transaction:

1. Create or own the XRPL account in the `Owner` field and have enough XRP to meet the reserve and transaction fee requirements.
2. Publish the XRPL account public key, so it can be used for verification by dApps.

> 3. Publish a registry of available price oracles with their unique `OracleDocumentID`.

Reviewer: I don't think this list of requirements makes sense here. The first point is literally a requirement for sending any transaction that creates a ledger entry, and the other two points are off-chain steps that can't possibly be hard requirements for sending the transaction—meaning that the user could do them later if at all, and the ledger itself would neither know nor care.

  "LastUpdateTime": 743609014,
  "AssetClass": "63757272656E6379",
  "PriceDataSeries": [
    {
      "PriceData": {
        "BaseAsset": "XRP",
        "QuoteAsset": "USD",
        "AssetPrice": 740,
        "Scale": 3
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## OracleSet Fields

| Field              | JSON Type | Internal Type | Required? | Description |
|--------------------|-----------|---------------|-----------|-------------|
| `Account`          | String    | AccountID     | Yes       | This account must match the account in the `Owner` field of the `Oracle` object. |
| `OracleDocumentID` | Number    | UInt32        | Yes       | A unique identifier of the price oracle for the `Account`. |
| `Provider`         | String    | Blob          | Variable  | An arbitrary value that identifies an oracle provider, such as Chainlink, Band, or DIA. This field is a string, up to 256 ASCII hex encoded characters (0x20-0x7E). This field is required when creating a new `Oracle` ledger entry, but is optional for updates. |
| `URI`              | String    | Blob          | No        | An optional Universal Resource Identifier to reference price data off-chain. This field is limited to 256 bytes. |

> | `LastUpdateTime`   | Number    | UInt32        | Yes       | The time the data was last updated, represented in the [ripple epoch time](https://xrpl.org/basic-data-types.html#specifying-time). |

Reviewer: Use a common link here too.

```suggestion
| `LastUpdateTime`   | Number    | UInt32        | Yes       | The time the data was last updated, in [seconds since the Ripple Epoch][]. |
```

Also, this contradicts the definition in the ledger entry page that says it's Unix time. (And the example once again represents a date in 2023, so I suggest updating that.)

| `AssetPrice`        | Number    | UInt64        | No        | The asset price after applying the `Scale` precision level. It's not included if the last update transaction didn't include the `BaseAsset`/`QuoteAsset` pair. |
| `Scale`             | Number    | UInt8         | No        | The scaling factor to apply to an asset price. For example, if `Scale` is 6 and original price is 0.155, then the scaled price is 155000. Valid scale ranges are 0-10. It's not included if the last update transaction didn't include the `BaseAsset`/`QuoteAsset` pair.|

`PriceData` is created or updated, following these rules:

- New token pairs in the transaction are added to the object.
- Token pairs in the transaction overwrite corresponding token pairs in the object.
- Token pairs in the transaction with a missing `AssetPrice` field delete corresponding token pairs in the object.
- Token pairs that only appear in the object have `AssetPrice` and `Scale` removed to signify that the price is outdated.

> **Note:** The order of token pairs in the transaction aren't important because each token pair uniquely identifies the location of the `PriceData` object in the `PriceDataSeries`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% admonition type="info" name="Note" %}The order of token pairs in the transaction aren't important because each token pair uniquely identifies the location of the `PriceData` object in the `PriceDataSeries`.{% /admonition %}
```

## Reserve Requirements

> The owner reserve requirement is 1 for one to five `PriceData` objects, and 2 for six to ten `PriceData` objects.

Reviewer: Is 1 what? 1 XRP? Probably this is more clear:

```suggestion
An Oracle object counts as one item for purposes of the [owner reserve](/docs/concepts/accounts/reserves.md#base-reserve-and-owner-reserve) if it contains one to five `PriceData` objects, and counts as two items if it contains for six to ten `PriceData` objects.
```

Also, typically I put this information in the ledger entry page, not the transaction page. Since it sounds like Oracles are a special case, it's probably also worth adding a note to the special cases section of the Reserves page.

Author: Moving this to the ledger entry page and adding a note on the reserves page.

- Token pairs in the transaction with a missing `AssetPrice` field delete corresponding token pairs in the object.
- Token pairs that only appear in the object have `AssetPrice` and `Scale` removed to signify that the price is outdated.

{% admonition type="info" name="Note" %}

> The order of token pairs in the transaction aren't important because each token pair uniquely identifies the location of the `PriceData` object in the `PriceDataSeries`.

Reviewer: Singular/plural mismatch here, too: "The order... aren't important"
